- [Instructor] After configuring our workstation
for Java 11 and analyzing the project,
we can start to migrate the system source code.
The first step in doing this is to compile the application
using Java 11.
This is going to require us to change the project's JDK
configuration.
We can do this by right-clicking on the project,
navigating to the Build Path menu,
and then selecting Configure Build Path.
This is going to open the project Properties dialogue,
where we can see that JDK 8 is included on the build path.
I'm going to select JDK 8 and hit Remove
because want to shift to JDK 11.
In order to add that JDK,
we can click on Add Library,
and then ensure that JRE System Library is selected
and hit Next.
This will open the Add Library dialogue.
In here if we click on the Alternate JRE option,
you'll notice that we have access
to every JDK that we've included within Eclipse.
Now because we are are using JDK 11
and it set as our Workspace default,
I'm just going to go ahead and select that option
and hit finish.
That's going to place JDK 11 on the build path
for our project.
At this point we can click on Apply and Close,
and that will cause the project to be built using Java 11.
Now, we know there's some existing issues
with our application and Java 11,
so let's go ahead and resolve those.
The first issue we're going to resolve
is within the RecommendationsService class.
So, I'm going to go ahead and open this class,
and if we take a look,
you'll notice that we are base 64 decoding a license key
using the BASE64Decoder class.
So, this class is part of the JDK internals,
and we know longer have access to them within Java 11,
so we're going to have to find another way
to create our license key.
So let's go ahead,
and we can start creating the string.
And this time instead of using the BASE64Decoder,
we're going to use the Base64 class
found within the Java.Util package.
Now on the Base64 class we have the option to get a decoder,
and once we get a decoder we find the decode method
on that object, which we can use to base 64 decode a string.
In this case, that string is going to be our license key,
so we'll just go ahead and pass that in
to the method as an argument,
and now we're able to decode our license key.
Now once we have that in place,
we need to remove the code that uses the BASE64Decoder,
and then we also need to remove the import of that type
that's found within the JDK internals.
So once we hit save, we have officially resolved
our first Java 11 migration issue.
Let's move on to our next issue
that we'll need resolved.
So, this issue is found
within our RecommendationConfiguration class,
and when you open the class it's a little bit daunting.
JAXB was removed from recent versions
of Java Standard Edition,
so that's why we're receiving all of these errors
related to JAXB annotations.
We'll need to provide our own implementation
of JAXB and its API.
Now our project is using Maven,
so we can use Maven
and its dependency management system
in order to obtain those libraries.
So within the pom.xml file,
I'm going to scroll down to where we're specifying
the dependencies for the project,
and we can start to add in the dependencies for JAXB.
So when we use Maven,
we have to specify the groupId of our dependency.
And in this case, it's going to be jakarta.xml.bind.
And then the artifact we're going to be using
is the jakarta.xml.bind-api.
And we'll be using version 2.3.3 of that dependency.
So, there's our first dependency
which will provide the JAXB API.
Now we need to add an implementation of JAXB,
and we're going to source that from glassfish.
So, we'll specify org.glassfish.jaxb as the groupId.
And then for the artifactId,
it's going to be jaxb-runtime.
And then we need to specify a version here as well,
which will be 2.3.3.
Okay, so now we have JAXB within our project,
and we're going to do one final thing
within the pom.xml file.
You'll notice that Java 8 is currently set
as our active profile,
and that's because of the activation tag
that we've included there.
So, let's go ahead and move the activation tag
into our Java 11 project.
So, we can go ahead and make Java 11 the active profile
within our pom.xml file,
and just save that change.
Okay with all these changes in place,
we're ready to run the application using Java 11.
So, I'm going to navigate to the Package Explorer.
I'll right-click on the project,
and then go to Run As, and Java Application.
We might get prompted to allow access for the JDK to run,
I'm going to go ahead and do that.
And then we can take a look at our running application.
You'll notice that we have not experienced any issues
upon application startup.
We do get some warnings regarding reflective access
that we'll have to take a look at.
So with the application started,
I'm going to navigate to a browser,
and then within this browser
we can access the API
which is running on localhost port 8080.
And then it exposes a product endpoint
where we can specify a product id.
I'll use product 500.
And once we hit that REST API endpoint,
we do see that we get a response back from our application.
Excellent!
So, we've reached one milestone
for fixing our application's source code.
We've completed the transition of the source code
over to Java 11.
Now, we do have some warnings within our console output
that we need to investigate,
but this is a key step in getting our application migrated.